
# Partners

The [Internet Standards Platform](/about/) is a joint initiative by the Dutch
Internet world, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Standardisation
Forum. The Internet.nl portal is run by Internet Society Netherlands, NLnet,
NLnet Labs, SURFnet, SIDN, and others.

- [DHPA](#dhpa)
- [ECP](#ecp)
- [Standardisation Forum](#standardisation-forum)
- [Internet Society international](#internet-society-international)
- [Internet Society Netherlands](#internet-society-netherlands)
- [Ministry of Economic Affairs](#ministry-of-economic-affairs)
- [NCSC](#ncsc)
- [NLnet](#nlnet)
- [NLnet Labs](#nlnetlabs)
- [RIPE NCC](#ripe)
- [SIDN](#sidn)
- [SURFnet](#surfnet)

## DHPA

The Dutch Hosting Provider Association is a partnership of hosting and cloud
providers and suppliers. The DHPA represents a sector that over recent decades
has grown into a major part of the national economy. The Dutch online sector
is one of the largest in the world and facilitates over 20 percent of all
e-commerce sales in Europe. The activities of the DHPA focus on image,
education, trust, and connecting.

- [DHPA](https://www.dhpa.nl/)

## ECP

ECP is a neutral platform of business, government and civil society
organisations whose aim is to strengthen the use of IT in Dutch society. Its
members have a joint vision of the Netherlands as an information society, and
ECP reflects this through concrete activities and projects. Through debate
and research ECP ensures that the civil and economic importance of IT features
on the national agenda.

- [ECP](https://ecp.nl/)

## Standardisation Forum

The Standardisation Forum was established by the Minister of Economic Affairs.
It supports the Dutch government in the use, development and establishment of
open standards for electronic exchange. In this way it promotes
interoperability, not only within the Dutch government system itself, but also
in the relations between government agencies and the citizens and companies
they serve.

- [Standardisation Forum](https://www.forumstandaardisatie.nl/english/)

## Internet Society international

The Internet Society is a global organisation dedicated to ensuring that the
Internet stays open, transparent, and defined by its users. ISOC works on
internet policies, technology standards and future developments, allowing the
Internet to continue to grow and evolve as a platform for innovation, economic
development, and social progress for people around the world.

- [Internet Society international](http://www.internetsociety.org/)

## Internet Society Netherlands

ISOC Netherlands is the Dutch chapter of the Internet Society.

- [Internet Society Netherlands](http://isoc.nl/)

## Ministry of Economic Affairs

The Ministry of Economic Affairs promotes the Netherlands as a country of
enterprise with a strong international competitive position and an eye for
sustainability. It is committed to building an excellent entrepreneurial
business climate by creating the right conditions and giving entrepreneurs
room to innovate and grow, by paying attention to nature and the living
environment, and by encouraging cooperation between research institutes and
businesses. This allows the Netherlands to enhance its leading positions in
agriculture, industry, services and energy, and to invest in a powerful,
sustainable country.

- [Ministry of Economic Affairs](http://www.government.nl/ministries/ez)

## NCSC

The National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) has been operational since 2012 and
falls under the responsibility of the National Coordinator for
Counterterrorism and Security (NCTV) of the Ministry of Security and Justice.
Its mission is to help increase the resilience of Dutch society in the digital
domain and, by doing so, to help create a safe, open and stable information
society.

- [NCSC](https://www.ncsc.nl/english)

## NLnet

The NLnet foundation gives financially support to organisations and people all
over the world who contribute to an open information society. It promotes the
exchange of electronic information in its broadest sense, and all that is
related or beneficial to that purpose. NLnet funds software, events,
educational activities, and more. It has contributed funding to many important
and visible projects such as [NLnet Labs](/partners/#NLnetLabs), Jitsi, the
SSL Observatory, NoScript, Tor, GPLv3, the Serval project, Calligra, and
webODF, as well as many other important projects that are less well known.

- [NLnet](https://nlnet.nl/)

## NLnet Labs

NLnet Labs develops open source software and open standards for the benefit of
the Internet. The foundation believes that the openness of the network &mdash;
as enabled by technology and policy &mdash; fosters human well-being and
prosperity. Its mission is to provide globally recognised innovations and
expertise for those technologies that turn a &quot;network of networks&quot;
into an open Internet for all.

- [NLnet Labs](http://www.nlnetlabs.nl/)

## RIPE NCC

The Réseaux IP Européens Network Coordination Centre (RIPE NCC) is an
independent, not-for-profit membership organisation that supports the
infrastructure of the Internet through technical coordination in the EMEA
region. The most prominent activity of RIPE NCC is to act as the Regional
Internet Registry (RIR) providing global internet resources and related
services (IPv4, [IPv6](/faqs/ipv6/) and AS Number resources) to members in the
RIPE NCC service region.

- [RIPE NCC](https://www.ripe.net/)

## SIDN

SIDN registers and manages all .nl domain names and is responsible for a
secure, operationally stable and globally reachable .nl network. Currently,
the foundation manages over five million domain names and handles over one
billion lookup requests a day. In addition, SIDN advises political
decision-makers on technical, legal and policy matters relating to domain
names and their underlying infrastructure. SIDN is involved in various
initiatives that are helping to make the Internet more secure, more reliable
and more accessible, and represents the interests of .nl both nationally and
on the global stage.

- [SIDN](https://www.sidn.nl/)

## SURFnet

SURFnet&#39;s mission is to increase the quality of higher education and
research, with the aim of making the best of all opportunities offered by
information technology. It does so by stimulating, innovating, developing and
exploiting an advanced, trusted and connecting IT infrastructure. This
infrastructure consists of two complementary and converging parts: One is a
network infrastructure supporting unlimited and efficient data transport as
the foundation of all collaboration. The other is a collaboration
infrastructure that connects systems, services, instruments and people,
creating an environment of access and interconnectivity for everything and
everyone.

- [SURFnet](https://www.surf.nl/en/about-surf/subsidiaries/surfnet)
